OIDC for external feeds (#1207)
OctopusDeploy/blog: blog/2025-04/oidc-external-feeds/index.md

---
title: OpenID Connect authentication for external feeds
description: External feeds now support OpenID Connect as an authentication method for container registries.
author: grace.rehn@octopus.com
visibility: public
published: 3020-01-01-1400
metaImage:
bannerImage:
bannerImageAlt: 125 characters max, describes image to people unable to see it.
isFeatured: false
tags: 
  - Product
  - Trust and Security
  - AWS
  - Azure
  - Google Cloud Platform
---

We recently updated our external feeds to support OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication. 

> Octopus can now use OAuth 2.0 to access your container feeds. This means you won’t have to manage or rotate credentials manually. This includes OIDC support for AWS, Azure, and Google Container Registries.

Author: Thanks Michelle, this would be good to add. I'll update it now 😄

> Octopus can now use OAuth 2.0 to access your container feeds. This means you won’t have to manage or rotate credentials manually. This includes OIDC support for AWS Elastic, Azure, and Google Container Registries.

Reviewer: Nit: this one might be personal preference, but I feel like the "Elastic" qualifier in "AWS Elastic Container Registry" can be removed here (AFAIK, the only "AWS Container Registry" is "AWS Elastic Container Registry")? 

```suggestion
Octopus can now use OAuth 2.0 to access your container feeds. This means you won’t have to manage or rotate credentials manually. This includes OIDC support for AWS, Azure, and Google Container Registries.
```

Reviewer: Is it worth adding links to the respective Microsoft/Amazon/Google docs for ACR, ECR, GCR etc.?

Author: I think users can probably just go to the provider docs through our Octopus docs. I've linked each of the Octopus docs in their respective sections and those reference the Microsoft/Amazon/Google docs quite heavily.

> This feature is now ready for our Cloud customers and will be available to self-hosted customers in 2025.2.

Reviewer 2: This feature is now ~ready~ available for our Cloud customers

> In this post, I explain how OIDC external feeds work and how to set them up for each provider.

Reviewer: Woo 🎉 !

## Google Container Registry (GCR)

Octopus now supports OIDC authentication for Google Container Registry via Workload Identity Federation. This means you no longer need to manage service account keys.

Start by configuring a Workload Identity Pool and an OIDC provider in Google Cloud. Then, create a trust configuration. This links the subject and audience from Octopus to a Google service account. In Octopus, set up a GCR external feed and provide the Audience and the registry URL. Octopus will use these to exchange its token for temporary credentials during deployment.

![Screenshot of the GCR OIDC Credentials form fields.](google-oidc-details.png "width=500")

For more guidance, see our [Google Container Registry docs](https://octopus.com/docs/packaging-applications/package-repositories/guides/container-registries/google-container-registry#adding-an-openid-connect-google-container-registry-to-octopus).

## Conclusion

> OIDC external feeds bring security and flexibility to your deployments by removing the need for static credentials. This method fits in with modern cloud practices and gives you more control over your feeds. With support for AWS, Azure, and Google registries, Octopus makes it easy to integrate secure, token-based authentication into your pipelines. 

Reviewer: Nit:

```suggestion
OIDC external feeds bring security and flexibility to your deployments by removing the need for static credentials. This method is consistent with modern cloud practices and gives you more control over your feeds. With support for AWS, Azure, and Google registries, Octopus makes it easy to integrate secure, token-based authentication into your pipelines. 
```

We hope you give it a try, and let us know what you think. If you have any questions or feedback, we’d love to hear from you.

> Happy deployments!

Reviewer 2: This is great, thanks Grace!

---
title: OpenID Connect authentication for external feeds
description: External feeds now support OpenID Connect as an authentication method for container registries.
author: grace.rehn@octopus.com
visibility: public

> published: 2025-04-30-1400

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
published: 2025-04-28-1400
```
